Stress Myths You Might Belive

1. **Myth 1:** Stress is the same for everyone.

    Not true. We don’t all experience stress the same way. It’s different for
    everybody. You may be stressed out by a high-pressure job, while  your
    coworker thrives on it.

2. **Myth 2:** Stress is always bad for you.

    While we might think that no stress would lead to happiness and health, it’s
    not  true. Stress itself — especially a little stress — keeps life in balance.
    What’s important is how we manage it. When we handle it well, we are
    productive and happy. Mismanage it, and we may fail or become even more
    stressed.

3. **Myth 3:** Stress is everywhere — you can’t do anything about it.

   It’s true that stress is all around us, but you can plan your life so you’re
   not overwhelmed by it. An effective strategy is to set priorities and work on
   solving simple problems first, before tackling more complex challenges. When we
   succumb to stress, it’s hard to prioritize because all problems seem equally
   troubling.

4. **Myth 3:** The most popular stress-reducing techniques are the best.

   Again, not true. Although popular magazines may claim to have the answers, no
   universally effective stress reduction techniques exist. We all have different
   lives, situations and reactions. A comprehensive stress management program
   tailored to your unique needs will work best. And don’t overlook self - help
   books. Many offer successful stress management techniques, which can help if
   you follow the program faithfully.

5. **Myth 3:** No symptoms, no stress.

   Just because you don’t have symptoms doesn’t mean you’re not experiencing
   stress. And if you’re masking your symptoms with medication, you may miss the
   signals you need to reduce the strain on your physiological and psychological
   systems. Even though stress is a psychological effect, chances are you’ll
   experience it in a physical way. Common physical signs include feeling anxious,
   run down or short of breath. Feeling overwhelmed, disorganized and having
   difficulty concentrating are frequent mental signs of stress.

6. **Myth 3:** Only major stress symptoms require attention.

   “Minor” symptoms — like headaches or stomach acid — are early warnings that
   your life is getting out of hand, and should not be ignored. Don’t wait for a
   major stress symptom, such as a heart attack, or it may be too late. Making
   lifestyle changes, like more exercise or a healthier diet, will pay big
   benefits in time, money and well-being